---
title: Keep it simple and consistent for a better User Experience.
layout: post
ftrd: /img/posts/pimg/artikle4.png
thumb: /img/posts/thumb/artikle4.png
author: Kwabena Badu
---
It is always great to follow the KISS (Keep It Simple Stupid) principle in design. Is good to keep in mind that your website user is more focused on how your website can help them achieve their goal than anything else. In designing your website, you should try your best to make it as simple as possible. Make sure the information you’re providing is easier to find and not cluttered by fluff that does not help the user achieve their goals. Make sure all elements on a webpage collectively help tell the story, and if they don’t, you should get rid of them. Use site decorations to set the scene for overall design. It should be there to lead the user to main story of the site not to just make the site nicer.

The use of images on your website should be done with a purpose in mind. As we say a picture is worth more than 1000 words. A good use of images on the website go a long way to help communicate the main story of your website. The use of happy, meaningless smiley people don’t exactly communicate the story you are telling on your site. Always make sure the images you use are consistent with the overall theme or story of your site. Also make sure the adverts you use on the website, is collectively related to the story of your website. It should be an advert that your readers will care about. Avoid the over usage of more fonts than necessary. Think like your users, and go through your site asking whether each element is helping, or hindering your visitors.

If users have to spend more time trying to figure out how your website works or behaves, the less time they will have for your content, and they eventually will leave the site. your design has to be very clear on how users can find the information they are looking for. To prevent users from leaving the site your design needs to be consistent. These means that certain actions performed on the website should have a similar response. For example, every time users click a text link, they should see another page throughout the site. Not that the users will see a pop-up video or some unexpected action.

The same is true with the wording you use on the site. Although it’s tempting to break out a thesaurus and find different names for items just to break the monotony, visitors to your site are relying on that consistent naming to know where they’ve been, and what areas to explore next. Calling a feature a forum in one location, and The Room in another place on the site, will make people wonder whether they’re going to see the same thing when they click on those different links. Consistency pays off. Once visitors have learned how your site works, they’ll be able to turn their focus to your content. Consistent design means they can learn faster and apply their knowledge to new areas of the site.
